---
layout: post
title: "It's alive!"
date: 2018-02-11 19:42:57 -0500
categories: jekyll
---

# In the immortal words of Monty Python, "I'm not dead yet!"

After a **very** long absence from posting things, I've pulled the body out of the freezer, moved it to a new location and fired up the old jumper cables to bring it back to life.

There were a few factors that helped corpsify the old site:

* No readers
* Lull in topics/ideas
* Platform related items

## No readers
This was a bit of a chicken and the egg issue; no content for the handful of readers I had, and a lack of readers hurting my motivation to make more content. 

There are two problems there though:

1. It's "build it and they will come" not "draw them in and promise content in the future". 
2. Selfish as it may sound, this *should* be a project for **me** to learn and record my discoveries. Anything else is incidental. :simple_smile:

## Lull in topics/ideas

A lot has changed since the last posts; some of it in my $DayJob, and even more in the industry and the spaces I deal with. There are plenty of things to talk about, and get into. Some of this will be helped by the platform change as well though.

## Platform related items

Previously I had been using [Blogger](http://theevolvingadmin.blogspot.com), and there is **absolutely** nothing wrong with Blogger; it's well liked by many.

It was however the wrong tool for *me*. I'm **not** a web person; I don't "speak" HTML, CSS, etc., and don't really want/need to. While you don't need to do any of that for Blogger, it helps you make use of more of it's capabilities. I was basically writing my posts in Word and uploading them, which isn't a very effective or efficient use of the platform.

However over the last year or so, I like many Windows folks (especially those working with PowerShell) have been working more and more with things like [Markdown][markdown-link] and [Git][git-link].

[Markdown][markdown-link] + [Git][git-link] + simple site/blog = [Jekyll][jekyll-link] on [GitHubPages](https://pages.github.com) and that's the route I shifted to.

It took a bit of finagling; partially getting my [Jekyll][jekyll-link] environment setup in my WSL Ubuntu install, and partially around getting my old posts converted from HTML to Markdown. But, it's done now and working, although still working on a better theme for the site.

Normally you'd expect to see a *How I setup my Jekyll environment* post, but personally I'd much rather improve the official documentation that new users will start with rather than make them dig through the various "how I got mine to work in spite of/around the documentation". 

To that end I've already made [one pull request](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/pull/6765) for the [Jekyll on Windows](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/windows) documentation and will have another one soon to clear up the other reproducable issue I ran into. :simple_smile:


[markdown-link]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[git-link]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git
[jekyll-link]: https://jekyllrb.com
