---
layout: single
title: Declining MECM updates that aren't visible in WSUS
excerpt: Using ConfigurationManager & UpdateService PS modules to decline updates
tags:
- PowerShell
- Configuration Manager
Categories: Tips & Tricks
---

Ever need to decline an update or updates from MECM, and then get stuck because the update isn't visible in the WSUS console?

This is pretty common with items from 3rd party catalogs, but sometimes you know **exactly** which update you want to get rid of and don't want to scroll through *all* the updates in the WSUS console to find it?

As is so often the case, PowerShell to the rescue! 😃

You'll need access to both the _ConfigurationManager_ and _UpdateServices_ modules, and the account you're running the script as will need at least Read access to Software Updates in MECM and membership in the **WSUS Administrators** group on the WSUS server that your root SUP talks to.

The *ConfigurationManager* module comes with the MECM Console install, and the **UpdateServices* module is part of the WSUS RSAT feature.
Or if you're feeling fancy, you can implicit remote these from your site server. 😃

The embedded code (thanks Gist!) is a rough sketch that will do the trick for you; the first few lines will need to be customized for your environment per the comments.

Down on line 36 is where you'll put the article ID of the update you want to decline. *__PLEASE BE CAUTIOUS HERE__* as some vendors will use the same article ID for multiple updates.

You can modify the **Get-CMSoftwareUpdate** section to go by other attributes; the important bit is that the *CI_UniqueID* of the *CMSoftwareUpdate* is the *UpdateID* that **Get-WSUSUpdate** is looking for.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/dsolodow/aa097124803f08d9b1da0e8d1ff4a877.js"></script>
